README.md, before:

![](jupysmug.png) [`SmugPyter` README](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/12/24/downloading-smugmug-captions-with-python-and-jupyter/)
====================================================================================

This repository contains a collection of Jupyter notebooks that illustrate how to use Python
and the SmugMug Version 2.0 API to collect and modify image metadata.

The notebooks are best used in this order.

1. [Getting Ready to use the SmugMug API with Python and Jupyter](https://github.com/bakerjd99/smugpyter/blob/master/notebooks/Getting%20Ready%20to%20use%20the%20SmugMug%20API%20with%20Python%20and%20Jupyter.ipynb)

2. [Downloading SmugMug Captions with Python and Jupyter](https://github.com/bakerjd99/smugpyter/blob/master/notebooks/Downloading%20Smugmug%20Captions%20with%20Jupyter%20and%20Python.ipynb)

3. [Setting SmugMug Print Size Keywords with Jupyter and Python](https://github.com/bakerjd99/smugpyter/blob/master/notebooks/Setting%20SmugMug%20Print%20Size%20Keywords%20with%20Jupyter%20and%20Python.ipynb)

4. [Finding Dominant Color Names from Color Space Coordinates and Images](https://github.com/bakerjd99/smugpyter/blob/master/notebooks/Finding%20Dominant%20Color%20Names%20from%20Color%20Space%20Coordinates%20and%20Images.ipynb)

John Baker
March 10, 2018

Commit message:

refine batch scripts and add final notebook illustrating their use

README.md, after:

![](jupysmug.png) [`SmugPyter` README](https://analyzethedatanotthedrivel.org/2017/12/24/downloading-smugmug-captions-with-python-and-jupyter/)
====================================================================================

This repository contains a collection of Jupyter notebooks that illustrate how to use Python
and the SmugMug Version 2.0 API to collect and modify image metadata.

The notebooks are best used in this order.

1. [Getting Ready to use the SmugMug API with Python and Jupyter](https://github.com/bakerjd99/smugpyter/blob/master/notebooks/Getting%20Ready%20to%20use%20the%20SmugMug%20API%20with%20Python%20and%20Jupyter.ipynb)

2. [Downloading SmugMug Captions with Python and Jupyter](https://github.com/bakerjd99/smugpyter/blob/master/notebooks/Downloading%20Smugmug%20Captions%20with%20Jupyter%20and%20Python.ipynb)

3. [Setting SmugMug Print Size and Geotag Keywords with Jupyter and Python](https://github.com/bakerjd99/smugpyter/blob/master/notebooks/Setting%20SmugMug%20Print%20Size%20Keywords%20with%20Jupyter%20and%20Python.ipynb)

4. [Finding Dominant Color Names from Color Space Coordinates and Images](https://github.com/bakerjd99/smugpyter/blob/master/notebooks/Finding%20Dominant%20Color%20Names%20from%20Color%20Space%20Coordinates%20and%20Images.ipynb)

5. [Using SmugPyter Batch Scripts]()

John Baker
April 7, 2018
