TODO_smugpyter.md, before:

![](todo.png) `SmugPyter` TODO
==============================

Pending and considered changes for `SmugPyter` and its subclasses. 
Browse the revision history of this file to review changes. The
base 36 GUID key is stable over the lifetime of a task. Eventually
I will hack together a GIT utility that will troll over the previous
versions of this file and extract all GUID marked tasks. 

Note: I use a number of VCS systems. The base 36 GUID is my key
for relating issues, tickets and so forth across systems.

`[begin-todo]`

1. `<_a1v2jf5jsvj83o33j3ogtvaen_>` Update to use current versions of `webcolors`.

2. `<_5i2y6xvmc479sbqerqje172c3_>` Fix occassional request failures when collecting metadata - retry a few times.

3. `<_2ys5yqm5ia9ift5b3lw5wxdr1_>` Add hidden image and private album data to collected metadata.

4. `<_85xwcz8j2awjeqt1y9qp1f8ev_>` Remove unused functions and improve comments in remaining.

5. `<_c8y9ygpu1wjjcgv00x8t0zy9p_>` Replace double authorization with only one - requires reworking many request functions.

6. `<_5gpgxtf3jkznkpep3378auq72_>` Continue adding to test case files.

7. `<_4euc4ml01fnr2l6nr6hqe0aog_>` Add `SmugPyter` specific exception class - requires many tweaks.

8. `<_e6x7m9kqbms7cpsh73j09qrxz_>` Refine OAuth material in first Jupyter notebook.

9. `<_3g6dzam8v2whg7oflf1d8f5ik_>` Fix typos in notebooks and standardize headers, sub-headers, et cetera.

10.  `<_d3x4qhey3pan4abgke6oh7qky_>` Spawn related project to build `LaTeX` from `SmugMirror` metadata.
    The long term goal is a book format index of fully captioned images.

11.  `<_1jx2lr9ph683otlyvdrq1h6fj_>` SmugMug `PATCH` commands stopped working again - investigate.

12. `<_1g8i6cxe6xe199imf8o75nsy1_>` Add functions to generate all keys for a single image from its file
    name and position when given an album key or file name. Would be very useful
    for making spot corrections and adjustments to assigned keys.

`[end-todo]`

Commit message:

real date web requests stopped working

TODO_smugpyter.md, after:

![](todo.png) `SmugPyter` TODO
==============================

Pending and considered changes for `SmugPyter` and its subclasses. 
Browse the revision history of this file to review changes. The
base 36 GUID key is stable over the lifetime of a task. Eventually
I will hack together a GIT utility that will troll over the previous
versions of this file and extract all GUID marked tasks. 

Note: I use a number of VCS systems. The base 36 GUID is my key
for relating issues, tickets and so forth across systems.

`[begin-todo]`

1. `<_9ignfplip9uisofeav4u87388_>` The web request to fetch real dates has stopped working (May 24, 2022). Fix or replace.

2. `<_a1v2jf5jsvj83o33j3ogtvaen_>` Update to use current versions of `webcolors`.

3. `<_5i2y6xvmc479sbqerqje172c3_>` Fix occassional request failures when collecting metadata - retry a few times.

4. `<_2ys5yqm5ia9ift5b3lw5wxdr1_>` Add hidden image and private album data to collected metadata.

5. `<_85xwcz8j2awjeqt1y9qp1f8ev_>` Remove unused functions and improve comments in remaining.

6. `<_c8y9ygpu1wjjcgv00x8t0zy9p_>` Replace double authorization with only one - requires reworking many request functions.

7. `<_5gpgxtf3jkznkpep3378auq72_>` Continue adding to test case files.

8. `<_4euc4ml01fnr2l6nr6hqe0aog_>` Add `SmugPyter` specific exception class - requires many tweaks.

9. `<_e6x7m9kqbms7cpsh73j09qrxz_>` Refine OAuth material in first Jupyter notebook.

10.  `<_3g6dzam8v2whg7oflf1d8f5ik_>` Fix typos in notebooks and standardize headers, sub-headers, et cetera.

11.  `<_d3x4qhey3pan4abgke6oh7qky_>` Spawn related project to build `LaTeX` from `SmugMirror` metadata.
    The long term goal is a book format index of fully captioned images.

12.  `<_1jx2lr9ph683otlyvdrq1h6fj_>` SmugMug `PATCH` commands stopped working again - investigate.

13. `<_1g8i6cxe6xe199imf8o75nsy1_>` Add functions to generate all keys for a single image from its file
    name and position when given an album key or file name. Would be very useful
    for making spot corrections and adjustments to assigned keys.

`[end-todo]`
